---
layout: post
title: The Value of Rejection
permalink: /rejection.html
---

Six months ago, Nick and I were trying to raise money for our startup HireHive. Y&nbsp;Combinator demo day was upon us and we had already fielded interest from a few investors. We spent the next few weeks going to meetings, sending emails, and jumping through all the other hoops that are part of the process.

In total we spent one month fundraising and we didn't get a penny. After a bit of soul searching, we decided that we hadn't raised any money because we didn't really believe in our idea. We canceled the rest of our meetings and started brainstorming again. We were frusturated and a bit discouraged, but we pushed ahead anyway.

Last week we launched [Hackruiter](http://www.hackruiter.com/) and I'm still reeling from the excitement. Launch weeks are always high notes so I'm bracing myself for the inevitable crash, but I think we're doing better. We've gone through maybe four un-launched ideas between our failed fundraising attempt and today. Some of them were just discussions; others are still git repositories in my development folder. I really do think we've learned something and we're on the right track.

What I do wonder sometimes is whether or not we would have gotten to where we are now without the rejection. I'm pretty sure we would have. I don't doubt our prospects for success in the long term. I think it might have taken quite a bit longer though.

If we had gotten validation from investors, we might have kept drinking our own Kool-Aid and believing the hype. I think you might need to actually fail at something in order to fail fast.

Ever since Yuri Milner and Ron Conway announced that they're giving $150k of virtually free money to every company in the current and every subsequent YC batch, I've wondered what would have happened if we had gotten that money too. There's no way to peer down other branches of reality, so I don't really know, but I think it would have just pushed back our inevitable failure to some point in the future.

Don't get me wrong, I'm not trying to manufacture happiness for myself. After all, I'm still living on my savings. If we were offered that deal, I would have done it in a heartbeat. My advice to the companies in the current batch is to take the $150k and not raise another penny until your graph looks like a big hockey stick and investors are banging down your door to get in. There's no way to know what would have happened if we had gotten that money, but I know we're in a better place now, and I'm not sure we'd be where we are today without having been rejected first.
