A School for Hackers
================

I went to college six years ago to get a computer science degree. I knew I wanted to program computers, and getting a degree in CS was the obvious way to learn how to do that.

In hindsight, I was wrong. I didn't want to study computer science at all. Computer science programs are designed to create computer scientists. A computer scientist is someone who stays in academia and does research on super advanced topics like distributed systems or artificial intelegence. It makes sense that CS programs are good at creating computer scientists because the people who design CS curriculums are computer scientists themselves.

What I really wanted to be is a hacker. Hackers are really good at building cool things. When I graduated, I wasn't much better at building things than when I started.

From a hacker's perspective, there's a major problem with the standard CS curriculum: you're not building useful things! I don't use a line of code that I wrote when I was in school. Furthermore, my grades reflected this. All that mattered was whe

problems with current curriculum:
- the code you write is never re-used
- the code you write is not useful
- your grades reflect this


What I know now is that I wanted to be a hacker. Great hackers are prolific builders. They're the ones whose Github accounts are overflowing with projects they've started and contributed to. They're the type you want to hire if you're running a super awesome startup. I wanted to be a hacker because I love taking things apart, seeing how they work, and building cool things of my own.

To educate hackers, you need a new kind of school focused on building useful things. No one is using any of the code I wrote in school.

- building useful things (re-use code), start by contributing to open source projects
- reading existing code bases
- 
